- [Instructor] Before we get too deep
into Spring Cloud, I do want to touch on Microservices.
Microservices aren't really a new concept
in software engineering.
But they're more an evolution on how software is written.
If you have been involved in writing software
for some time, you may have seen several iterations
of services-based architectures.
One of the most common that we have seen for some time
is services oriented architecture, or SOA.
Now, Microservices are not SOA,
so please don't get that idea.
The similarities end with the concepts of services-based.
In a Microservices architecture, transactions
are usually over REST or GRPC,
with REST being the most common.
SOA usually runs over SOAP and has complex logic
built into BPMs.
Microservices restrict logic to the actual code.
Microservices focus on domain-driven designs.
Domains become the service boundaries
even in higher abstraction layers.
They key in a solid Microservices architecture
is the need for the services to be loosely coupled.
This doesn't change in any quality implementation
of software, but tightly coupled Microservices
actually add overhead, that makes the system
as a whole, much more brittle.
As you will see, if you study Microservices more,
the benefits can be fantastic, however, the detriments
can really start to become a headache
if not properly managed.
Coupling of services is one such potential headache.
Not all domains are evident from the raw data.
While we do usually make data-specific services,
we also do process services and other abstraction types.
These services still operate on domains,
but they are composite domains built using underlying data,
usually, bits and pieces of sub-domains.
Decompositions in Microservices
are based at the system level,
and not the component level, specifically.
Component level decomposition should still occur, of course,
as part of good development practices,
but it is now also critical at a higher level of the system.
A question that often comes up
when I speak about Microservices is where do applications
fit into a Microservices architecture?
The answer is simply that you treat applications
as every other service in its own container.
This can be anything from a Web application,
a cron job, or a simple Web service;
they are all treated the same.
Each application should serve
as an individual use and purpose.
Again, this goes for anything within our system.
Every Web application, a cron job, Web service,
whatever, should be for single use and single purpose.
This really helps define boundaries for each of our systems
as well as promotes reuse within the system, as a whole.
Part of making these applications single-purpose
stems from the ability to rely on other services
for the processing needs and data access needs
that the application may have.
As we build applications in a Microservices architecture,
we focus on that single task and single purpose,
so we need to rely on other services and processes
to do the same things.
This is where the power of the architecture pattern
comes from: do one thing really well and rapidly
iterate on it, and that's the end.
So you may be wondering how Spring fits into this model.
At its core, Spring Boot was designed for two main purposes.
Microservices is one of those purposes.
Spring Boot does, indeed, allow us to build applications
quickly and easily, but it also focuses
on Microservices architecture,
because setting up an application quickly and easily
you can build more of them even quicker,
as setup costs are a big part
of the cost of developing a new application.
Spring Cloud brings in the cloud-native aspects
to Spring Boot.
Now, you can write Spring Boot applications
without using the Spring Cloud abstractions
and still hold to cloud-native principles.
However, Spring Cloud definitely provides
some much valued abstractions.
I want to expand on this a bit.
Because you don't need Spring Boot, either,
to build these applications.
Again, it's about simplicity.
This course will focus primarily on cloud-native
applications, but we will also work
with Microservices-based architecture.
They are not one in the same.
But as you will see in this course,
they can go hand-in-hand and work well with each other.
In this course, we'll build a few different types
of Microservices.
Data services will be used in this course
to serve data from the database to our runtime.
Data services generally are built with their own
abstracted data store, however, often,
companies will focus on solving a data problem
using a quality no SQL database
that can handle global distributions, like Cassandra.
Either using individual databases or large-scale,
highly-available distributed databases,
the application service operates the same.
The data domains are designed in such a way
that all reads and writes to the database
go through the data services, including operations
like cron jobs.
We'll be using a processor/business service
to aggregate data across several data domains.
We will be using this construct to not only aggregate data,
but also to manage the interaction from the front end.
Now, while we won't be building Web applications
in this course, they can be used to provide
a visual reference for our applications.
So let's jump in.